Mini Project Idea (Simple + Scorable)
✅ Student Management System (Salesforce App)

👉 You will:

Create a custom app
Store student data
Add records
View/search students
🧠 What You’ll Build

Features:

Add Student details
View student records
Track marks & department
⚙️ STEP-BY-STEP IMPLEMENTATION
🔹 STEP 1: Create Salesforce Account
Go to 👉 https://developer.salesforce.com/signup
Fill details
Login to your org
🔹 STEP 2: Open Setup
Click ⚙️ (top right)
Click Setup
🔹 STEP 3: Create Custom App
Search App Manager
Click New Lightning App
Enter:
App Name: Student Management
Click Next → Next → Save
🔹 STEP 4: Create Custom Object
Go to Setup → Search Object Manager
Click Create → Custom Object

Fill:

Label: Student
Plural: Students
Record Name: Student Name

✔ Tick:

Allow Reports
Allow Activities

👉 Click Save

🔹 STEP 5: Add Fields

Now add important fields:

1. Roll Number
Type: Number
2. Department
Type: Text
3. Marks
Type: Number
4. Email
Type: Email

👉 Go to:

Fields & Relationships → New → Select type → Create
🔹 STEP 6: Add Tab
Go to Setup → Tabs
Click New
Select Object → Student
Choose any icon → Save
🔹 STEP 7: Add Object to App
Go to App Manager
Edit your app
Add Student to Navigation Items
Save
🔹 STEP 8: Use Your App
Open App Launcher (9 dots)
Select Student Management
Click Students
Click New
Add student data 🎉

💻 (Optional) Add Apex Logic
Example: Calculate Grade
public class StudentHelper {

    public static String getGrade(Integer marks) {
        if (marks >= 75) return 'A';
        else if (marks >= 60) return 'B';
        else if (marks >= 40) return 'C';
        else return 'Fail';
    }
}


Run in Anonymous:

System.debug(StudentHelper.getGrade(85));
execute 

📊 System Architecture (Simple Explanation for Viva)
Frontend → Lightning App UI
Backend → Salesforce Objects
Logic → Apex Code
Database → Salesforce Cloud Storage
🧾 Viva Answer (Very Important)

If teacher asks:

👉 “What did you develop?”

A custom Student Management Application using Salesforce Lightning Platform.

👉 “What technologies used?”

Salesforce Cloud, Apex, Custom Objects, Lightning UI.

👉 “What is benefit?”

Centralized data, easy management, scalable cloud system.


AIM

To design and develop a custom Student Management System application using the Salesforce Lightning Platform for managing student records efficiently.

🎯 OBJECTIVE
To understand Salesforce cloud platform and Lightning applications
To create custom objects, fields, and tabs in Salesforce
To store and manage student information digitally
To implement simple business logic using Apex programming
To learn cloud-based application development using Salesforce
📘 THEORY

Salesforce
 is a cloud-based Customer Relationship Management (CRM) platform that allows users to build scalable and secure applications. It provides tools such as Lightning Apps, Custom Objects, Apex programming, and cloud storage for application development.

In this mini project, a Student Management System was developed using Salesforce Lightning Platform. A custom app named “Student Management” was created along with a custom object called “Student.” Various fields such as Roll Number, Department, Marks, and Email were added to store student information.

The application allows users to add, view, and manage student records. An optional Apex class was used to calculate student grades based on marks. The project demonstrates cloud-based application development, data management, and Salesforce customization features.

✅ CONCLUSION

The Student Management System was successfully developed using Salesforce Lightning Platform. The application stores and manages student details efficiently using custom objects and fields. Apex programming was used to implement additional business logic. This project provided practical knowledge of Salesforce cloud application development, data handling, and Lightning interface customization.

🧠 VIVA QUESTIONS WITH ONE-LINER ANSWERS
🔹 Salesforce Basics
What is Salesforce?

A cloud-based CRM and application development platform.

What is CRM?

Customer Relationship Management.

Salesforce belongs to which cloud model?

SaaS and PaaS.

What is Lightning App?

Custom Salesforce application interface.

🔹 Project Questions
What project did you develop?

Student Management System.

Purpose of the project?

To manage student records digitally.

Which object did you create?

Student custom object.

Which fields were added?

Roll Number, Department, Marks, and Email.

🔹 Apex Questions
What is Apex?

Object-oriented programming language in Salesforce.

Why use Apex?

To implement custom business logic.

What does System.debug() do?

Displays output in debug logs.

What is a static method?

Method called without creating object.

🔹 Salesforce Components
What is Object Manager?

Tool to manage objects and fields.

What is App Launcher?

Used to open Salesforce apps.

What is a Custom Object?

User-created database table in Salesforce.

What is a Field?

Stores specific data in an object.

🔹 Cloud & Database Questions
Where is data stored?

Salesforce cloud database.

Main benefit of cloud application?

Accessible from anywhere.

Advantage of Salesforce?

Scalable, secure, and easy to customize.

⚡ Strong Viva Closing Line

“The project demonstrated development of a cloud-based Student Management System using Salesforce Lightning Platform with custom objects, fields, and Apex logic.”